pages/09.grav-admin/09.plugins/docs.md, before:

---
title: Plugins
taxonomy:
    category: docs
process:
    twig: true
---

![Grav Admin Plugins](plugins.png) 

The **Plugins** in the admin is a powerful text editor and page manager that enables you to create your page's content (including media files), its publishing and taxonomy options, settings, overrides, and theme-specific options.

It's essentially a one-stop-shop for managing a specific page.

In this page, we will go over the features and functionality found in the **Advanced** tab of the **Plugins**. 

>>>>> You might notice the check boxes to the left of some of the options in this area of the admin. These boxes indicate that you would like to override the default values for this page. Leaving them unchecked reverts to blank or default states.

## Controls

![Grav Admin Plugins](plugins_1.png)

The **Controls** area at the top of the page give you access to the ability to add new plugins, as well as check for updates for existing ones. 

![Grav Admin Plugins](plugins_2.png)

The <i class="fa fa-plus"></i> Add button takes you to a page listing all of the currently-available Grav plugins, enabling you to view their information and install them by selecting the <i class="fa fa-plus"></i> Install button to the right of the plugin.

The <span color="purple"><i class="fa fa-check-circle"></i></span> icon indicates that the plugin is created and supported by the Grav team. Plugins without this icon were created by third-party developers.

## Installed Plugins

![Grav Admin Plugins](plugins_4.png)

This area of the Plugins administrator gives you the ability to see, at a glance, which plugins are presently installed on your Grav site. Additionally, you can enable and disable these plugins by selecting the <i class="fa fa-fw fa-toggle-on"></i> toggle icon to the right of each plugin.

![Grav Admin Plugins](plugins_3.png)

Upon selecting the <i class="fa fa-chevron-down"></i> chevron icon will give you more information about the plugin, including its author, project home page and bug tracker, as well as its license and a brief description. You can also quickly access the plugin's readme file for additional information and usage guide.

Commit message:

Admin Plugin Documentation Image Optimization

pages/09.grav-admin/09.plugins/docs.md, after:

---
title: Plugins
taxonomy:
    category: docs
process:
    twig: true
---

![Grav Admin Plugins](plugins.png) 

The **Plugins** area of the admin is where you can go to manage your plugins, add new ones, remove existing ones, and quickly access links to documentation and other information.

In this page, we will explore this area of the admin in detail, including how to active and deactivate installed plugins, and add new ones with ease.

## Controls

![Grav Admin Plugins](plugins_1.png)

The **Controls** area at the top of the page give you access to the ability to add new plugins, as well as check for updates for existing ones. 

![Grav Admin Plugins](plugins_2.png)

The <i class="fa fa-plus"></i> Add button takes you to a page listing all of the currently-available Grav plugins, enabling you to view their information and install them by selecting the <i class="fa fa-plus"></i> Install button to the right of the plugin.

The <span color="purple"><i class="fa fa-check-circle"></i></span> icon indicates that the plugin is created and supported by the Grav team. Plugins without this icon were created by third-party developers.

## Installed Plugins

![Grav Admin Plugins](plugins_4.png)

This area of the Plugins administrator gives you the ability to see, at a glance, which plugins are presently installed on your Grav site. Additionally, you can enable and disable these plugins by selecting the <i class="fa fa-fw fa-toggle-on"></i> toggle icon to the right of each plugin.

![Grav Admin Plugins](plugins_3.png)

Upon selecting the <i class="fa fa-chevron-down"></i> chevron icon will give you more information about the plugin, including its author, project home page and bug tracker, as well as its license and a brief description. You can also quickly access the plugin's readme file for additional information and usage guide.
